# Charleston, SC

*This data is a part of a FiveThirtyEight/The Marshall Project effort to collect comprehensive data on police misconduct settlements from 2010-19. See the [data dictionary here](../) and [the story here](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/police-misconduct-costs-cities-millions-every-year-but-thats-where-the-accountability-ends).*

We received PDFs for settlements closed between 2010 and 2019. We manually transferred the data with the label “Law Enforcement” under “cause of claim” from the PDFs into a usable data set. We've done no additional filtering on cases, except to filter out $0 for total_incurred or NAs for total incurred. This means there are some cases in there that might be over inclusive — e.g. "Law Enforcement - Miscellaneous," "Law Enforcement - Errors & Omissions," "Law Enforcement - Negligent Supervision," or "Law Enforcement - Libel/Slander."  “Paid losses” refers to the sum that is paid for a claim as a result of a settlement or judgement, which we included as “amount_awarded”. “Paid expenses” refers to the sum paid on behalf of an insured to defend a claim, which we included as “other_expenses.” We added “amount_awarded” and “other_expenses” together in "total incurred." The data includes no perfect duplicates. Some settlements seem to have been paid out in multiple installments. The city is listed as the sole defendant in multiple cases. It is unclear whether the data includes both claims and settlements, but we believe it only includes litigated claims.
