# Indianapolis, IN

*This data is a part of a FiveThirtyEight/The Marshall Project effort to collect comprehensive data on police misconduct settlements from 2010-19. See the [data dictionary here](../) and [the story here](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/police-misconduct-costs-cities-millions-every-year-but-thats-where-the-accountability-ends).*

We received settlements for cases closed between January 2010 and December 2019. Records from before March 2016 were kept by a different management team than those post-Marcg 2016, which were kept by the Office of Corporation Counsel, and the new office said they cannot guarantee the accuracy or completeness of pre-2016 data. Between 2010-13, the “case name” field contained the plaintiff’s name, but beginning in 2014, the field contained the matter name. The plaintiff’s name is missing for all cases settled after 2014. We filtered out “employment: wrongful termination,” “employment law: discrimination,” “breach of contract,” “contract,” “apra: attorney's fees” (APRA is Indiana’s Access to Public Records Act) and “motor vehicle accident.” We left in “negligence: motor veh accident” (87 cases, the largest single category), “defamation,” “return of property,” “civil rights: ADA,” “declaratory judgment” and some others that were unclear. One case that was filed in 2014 and closed in 2017, Marvin Coffey v. City of Indianapolis, has an incident date of 1/6/76. The data includes cases in which the city is the sole defendant, so we believe this is the whole universe of settlements related to police misconduct for the given time period.
